Iter Vehems ad Necem v0.430
---------------------------

For news and updates view our homepage at ivan.sourceforge.net.

--------------------------

1. Description

2. System requirements

3. General gameplay

4. FAQ

-----------------------------

1. Description

Iter Vehemens ad Necem (IVAN) is a graphical roguelike game,
which currently runs in Windows, DOS and Linux. It features
advanced bodypart and material handling, multi-colored lighting
and, above all, deep gameplay.

-----------------------------

2. System requirements

The game *works* on quite slow systems, but we recommend that
use at least a:

	Pentium 200 MHz
	48 Megs of RAM

	Windows 9x/ME/XP/2000 (at least)

	or:

	DOS
	Vesa 2.0 compatible video card

	or:
	
	Linux with 
	(SDL library version 1.2.0 or higher)

-----------------------------

3. General gameplay

IVAN works pretty much in the same way as other roguelikes.
The player controls a character. The player moves and attacks
from the direction keys. All other commands can be found by
pressing ?-key in the game.

-----------------------------

4. FAQ

Q: What does "Iter Vehemens ad Necem" mean?

A: It's latin and means a "Violent Road to Death".

Q: Why can't I make multiple saves and why is my save deleted when I die?

A: Like the creators of other roguelikes, we think this makes
gaming much more exciting, since you must take full responsibility
of all your actions. You have only one chance to live or die.
Usually the latter, as the name suggests.

Q: What do these strange markings like Dex, Agi mean in
right sidebar?

A: 
ArmStr = Arm Strength - Increases damage inflicted on enemies
LegStr = Leg Strength - Increases carrying capacity and kicking damage
Dex = Dexterity - Increases accuracy and hit speed
Agi = Agility - Increase movement speed and ability to dodge attacks
End = Endurance - Increases maximum health points and healing rate
Per = Perception - Increases sight range and accuracy
Int = Intelligence - Increases your ability to read and learn
Wis = Wisdom - Increases your ability to deal with gods
Cha = Charisma - Improves your ability to negotiate and make deals
Siz = Size or height - Increases your enemies' chance to hit you
HP = Health Points - The sum of your bodyparts' HPs
Gold = The amount of money you have
Time = The turns you have used in this game

Q: I had 20 HPs, but I still died. Is this a bug?

A: No, this is not a bug. You will die (at least in human-form) if
your HPs of your groin, torso or head reach 0.

Q: Why do I always miss spiders with my trusty iron mace?

A: Mace is far too big for hitting small creatures. Do
you really kill spiders with large objects in real life?

Q: What do marks like L+, C-- mean in the pray menu?

A: All gods have a property that tells whether they are
supporters of Law or Chaos or if they are Neutral. This is
however too general description so the plusses and minuses
tell of slight differences between the gods. Eg Valpurus
has the letters L++ this means that Valpurus is extremely
lawful, when Sophos has the letters L-, which in turn means
that Sophos is lawful, but still leaning a bit towards
neutrality and even chaos.

Q: I just lost a leg. How do I get it back?

A: Certain gods, potions and special characters may help you.

Q: How is score calculated?

A: First the kills of the player and his pets are merged to a single
list. Then for every monster type, the score is calculated with the
following formula

Score = sqrt(a) * b * b

sqrt(a) = square root of the number of killed monster of this type
b = Sum of the attributes of a monster of this type

The individual scores of the monster types are then added
together. You also get a high bonus for winning, depending on your 
victory type.

Q: How can I compile IVAN source code?

A: See INSTALL.

Q: I am a Linux user. Why can't I access the wizard (cheat) mode?

A: The wizard mode functions aren't compiled by default. In Linux 
change the environment variable CXXFLAGS to -DWIZARD and recompile.

Q: I am a DOS user. When I try to run IVAN, I get the message
"Load error: no DPMI - Get csdpmi*b.zip".

The DOS binary is compiled using DJGPP, so you need a DPMI server
to run it. One should have been provided along with IVAN, but if
that's not the case, download it from www.delorie.com.

Q: I've found a bug. What should I do?

A: Write a small description on how the bug occured and if possible
even how we could replicate it and send this information by email
to ivan-users@lists.sourceforge.net. If you are a SourceForge user,
you can also report this bug at Ivan's SourceForge project page:

http://sourceforge.net/projects/ivan

You should mention your full name so we can credit you at the end
of the AUTHORS file, if you are the first to discover this bug.

Q: I've got a great idea to make IVAN better! What should I do?

A: Describe the idea to us by sending it to 
ivan-users@lists.sourceforge.net or report it at Ivan's SourceForge
project page (see above).

Q: I'm a programmer willing to help you. What should I do?

A: Code and then send us (e-mail: ivan-devel@lists.sourceforge.net)
your diff. If we like your code we will integrate it to the next
release. You will of course be credited for your code.

-----------------------------

FREE SOFTWARE FOREVER!
